#!perl

use strict;
use warnings;

use App::Genpass;

my $app       = App::Genpass->new_with_options;
my @passwords = $app->generate();

print map { "$_\n" } @passwords;

exit 0;

__END__

=head1 NAME

genpass - Quickly and easily create secure passwords

=head1 SYNOPSIS

genpass [-elrsv] [long options...]

 Options:
          --configfile      configuration file to read (YAML, JSON, INI, etc.)
    -e    --readable        create readable passwords
    -l    --length          password length
    -r    --repeat          how many passwords to create
    -s    --special         use special characters (clashes with readable opt)
    -v    --verify          verify types of characters
          --lowercase       what lowercase characters to use
          --uppercase       what uppercase characters to use
          --numerical       what numerical characters to use
          --specials        what characters are considered special
          --unreadable      what characters are considered unreadable
          --usage           brief usage output
          --help            what you're currently reading

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<genpass> creates passwords in a fast and comfortable maner. The idea is to be
able to do plenty without necessarily needing to.

The way B<genpass> works is by compiling a list of known characters by types
(numerical, lowercase, uppercase, etc.) and a list of unreadable characters -
which are basically characters that can be confused with each other (0OIl1),
etc.

B<genpass> allows you to pick which characters it will use to create the
passwords via the longer options for I<lowercase>, I<uppercase>,
I<numerical>, I<specials> and I<unreadable>.

Also, any boolean option (readable, special) can be negated using "no", such as
I<genpass --nospecial> which negates I<genpass --special>.

Read below for more options and examples.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<--configfile>

B<genpass> can work with most configuration formats, such as YAML, JSON, INI
(Apache) and so on. You can configure any part of B<genpass> and ask B<genpass>
to read a configuration file as such:

    genpass --configfile ~/.genpass.yaml

Or a global one as such:

    genpass --configfile /etc/genpass.json

Default: I</etc/genpass.yaml>.

=item B<-e | --readable>

A flag to decide whether passwords should be readable. The purpose of
readability is to create passwords you can give to users or read to someone -
both of which aren't necessarily good practices, but commonly used.

Readable passwords do not contain the additional type of special characters,
which is something to consider. Sometimes it doesn't matter as much (such as a
Windows user on a local LAN machine that has no critical data or access
anywhere.

    genpass --readable

Since I<readable> is on by default, you can negate this if you want by using
the I<noreadable> option:

    genpass --noreadable

This will turn on the special and possibly unreadable characters option.

Please view I<unreadable> below for more details.

Default: on.

=item B<-l | --length>

The length of the password.

    # create a 50 character long password
    genpass --length 50

    # create a 7 character long password
    genpass -l 7

If your configuration requires a certain variety of characters but you've asked
for a shorter password (one which cannot contain that variety), B<genpass> will
complain and try to explain what the problem is.

    $ genpass -l 2
    You wanted a longer password that the variety of characters you've selected.
    You requested 3 types of characters but only have 2 length.

Default: 10.

=item B<-r | --repeat>

How many passwords to create. The word repeat comes from how many times to
repeat the generation process.

    # generate 30 passwords
    genpass -r 30

Default: 1.

=item B<-s | --special>

Indicates whether to use special characters or not. This basically means symbols
such as period, exclamation mark, percentage sign, etc.

    genpass --special

You can negate this flag by doing:

    genpass --nospecials

Default: no.

=item B<-v | --verify>

Whether to verify that the variety of characters you requested is included.

Disabling this gains you speed if you create a rather large number of passwords
that have a rather large number of characters. Then you don't need to worry as
much about having that variety since probability says you probably will.

You can negate this using:

    genpass --noverify

Best to keep it on though.

Default: yes.

=item B<--lowercase>

Which characters are considered lowercase?

=item B<--uppercase>

Which characters are considered uppercase?

=item B<--numerical>

Which characters are considered numerical?

=item B<--specials>

Which characters are considered special ones?

=item B<--unreadable>

Which characters are considered unreadable?

This includes a short list of characters that are easily confused and the above
sequences are stripped of such characters.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

    # create a 10 character length password
    genpass -l 10

    # create 30 passwords using all possible characters
    genpass -r 30 --noreadable

    # create 5 new passwords of length of 30, long options
    genpass --repeat 5 --length 30

